
## Parameters

`command_queue`  
Must be a valid host command-queue. The OpenCL context associated with
`command_queue`, `src_image`, and `dst_buffer` must be the same.

`src_image`  
A valid image object.

`dst_buffer`  
A valid buffer object.

`src_origin`  
Defines the (x, y, z) offset in pixels in the 1D, 2D or 3D image, the
(x, y) offset and the image index in the 2D image array or the (x)
offset and the image index in the 1D image array. If `src_image` is a 2D
image object, `src_origin`\[2\] must be 0. If `src_image` is a 1D image
or 1D image buffer object, `src_origin`\[1\] and `src_origin`\[2\] must
be 0. If `src_image` is a 1D image array object, `src_origin`\[2\] must
be 0. If `src_image` is a 1D image array object, `src_origin`\[1\]
describes the image index in the 1D image array. If `src_image` is a 2D
image array object, `src_origin`\[2\] describes the image index in the
2D image array.

`region`  
Defines the (width, height, depth) in pixels of the 1D, 2D or 3D
rectangle, the (width, height) in pixels of the 2D rectangle and the
number of images of a 2D image array or the (width) in pixels of the 1D
rectangle and the number of images of a 1D image array. If `src_image`
is a 2D image object, `region`\[2\] must be 1. If `src_image` is a 1D
image or 1D image buffer object, `region`\[1\] and `region`\[2\] must be
1. If `src_image` is a 1D image array object, `region`\[2\] must be 1.
The values in `region` cannot be 0.

`dst_offset`  
Refers to the offset where to begin copying data into `dst_buffer`. The
size in bytes of the region to be copied referred to as `dst_cb` is
computed as `width * height * depth * bytes/image element` if
`src_image` is a 3D image object, is computed as
`width * height * bytes/image element` if `src_image` is a 2D image, is
computed as `width * height * arraysize * bytes/image element` if
`src_image` is a 2D image array object, is computed as
`width * bytes/image element` if `src_image` is a 1D image or 1D image
buffer object and is computed as
`width * arraysize * bytes/image element` if `src_image` is a 1D image
array object.

`event_wait_list ,` `num_events_in_wait_list`  
Specify events that need to complete before this particular command can
be executed. If `event_wait_list` is NULL, then this particular command
does not wait on any event to complete. If `event_wait_list` is NULL,
`num_events_in_wait_list` must be 0. If `event_wait_list` is not NULL,
the list of events pointed to by `event_wait_list` must be valid and
`num_events_in_wait_list` must be greater than 0. The events specified
in `event_wait_list` act as synchronization points. The context
associated with events in `event_wait_list` and `command_queue` must be
the same. The memory associated with `event_wait_list` can be reused or
freed after the function returns.

`event`  
Returns an event object that identifies this particular copy command and
can be used to query or queue a wait for this particular command to
complete. `event` can be NULL in which case it will not be possible for
the application to query the status of this command or queue a wait for
this command to complete.
[`clEnqueueBarrierWithWaitList`](clEnqueueBarrierWithWaitList.html) can
be used instead. If the `event_wait_list` and the `event` arguments are
not NULL, the `event` argument should not refer to an element of the
`event_wait_list` array.

If the mipmap extensions are enabled with
[`cl_khr_mipmap_image`](cl_khr_mipmap_image.html), calls to
[`clEnqueueCopyImage`](clEnqueueCopyImage.html),
`clEnqueueCopyImageToBuffer`, and
[`clEnqueueCopyBufferToImage`](clEnqueueCopyBufferToImage.html) can also
be used to copy from and to a specific mip-level of a mip-mapped image.
If `src_image` argument is a 1D image, `src_origin`\[1\] specifies the
mip-level to use. If `src_image` argument is a 1D image array,
`src_origin`\[2\] specifies the mip-level to use. If `src_image`
argument is a 2D image, `src_origin`\[3\] specifies the mip-level to
use. If `src_image` argument is a 2D image array or a 3D image,
`src_origin`\[3\] specifies the mip-level to use. If `dst_image`
argument is a 1D image, `dst_origin`\[1\] specifies the mip-level to
use. If `dst_image` argument is a 1D image array, `dst_origin`\[2\]
specifies the mip-level to use. If `dst_image` argument is a 2D image,
`dst_origin`\[3\] specifies the mip-level to use. If `dst_image`
argument is a 2D image array or a 3D image, `dst_origin`\[3\] specifies
the mip-level to use.

If the mip level specified is not a valid value, these functions return
the error `CL_INVALID_MIP_LEVEL`.

## Errors

`clEnqueueCopyImageToBuffer` returns `CL_SUCCESS` if the function is
executed successfully. Otherwise, it returns one of the following
errors:

-   `CL_INVALID_COMMAND_QUEUE` if `command_queue` is not a valid host
    command-queue.

-   `CL_INVALID_CONTEXT` if the context associated with `command_queue`,
    `src_image` and `dst_buffer` are not the same or if the context
    associated with `command_queue` and events in `event_wait_list` are
    not the same.

-   `CL_INVALID_MEM_OBJECT` if `src_image` is not a valid image object
    or `dst_buffer` is not a valid buffer object or if `src_image` is a
    1D image buffer object created from `dst_buffer`.

-   `CL_INVALID_VALUE` if the 1D, 2D, or 3D rectangular region specified
    by `src_origin` and `src_origin` + `region` refers to a region
    outside `src_image`, or if the region specified by `dst_offset` and
    `dst_offset` + `dst_cb` refers to a region outside `dst_buffer`.

-   `CL_INVALID_VALUE` if values in `src_origin` and `region` do not
    follow rules described in the argument description for `src_origin`
    and `region`.

-   `CL_INVALID_EVENT_WAIT_LIST` if `event_wait_list` is NULL and
    `num_events_in_wait_list` > 0, or `event_wait_list` is not NULL and
    `num_events_in_wait_list` is 0, or if event objects in
    `event_wait_list` are not valid events.

-   `CL_MISALIGNED_SUB_BUFFER_OFFSET` if `dst_buffer` is a sub-buffer
    object and `offset` specified when the sub-buffer object is created
    is not aligned to `CL_DEVICE_MEM_BASE_ADDR_ALIGN` value for device
    associated with `queue`.

-   `CL_INVALID_IMAGE_SIZE` if image dimensions (image width, height,
    specified or compute row and/or slice pitch) for `src_image` are not
    supported by device associated with `queue`.

-   `CL_IMAGE_FORMAT_NOT_SUPPORTED` if image format (image channel order
    and data type) for `src_image` are not supported by device
    associated with `queue`.

-   `CL_MEM_OBJECT_ALLOCATION_FAILURE` if there is a failure to allocate
    memory for data store associated with `src_image` or `dst_buffer`.

-   `CL_INVALID_OPERATION` if the device associated with `command_queue`
    does not support images (i.e. `CL_DEVICE_IMAGE_SUPPORT` specified in
    the table of OpenCL Device Queries for
    [`clGetDeviceInfo`](clGetDeviceInfo.html) is `CL_FALSE`).

-   `CL_OUT_OF_RESOURCES` if there is a failure to allocate resources
    required by the OpenCL implementation on the device.

-   `CL_OUT_OF_HOST_MEMORY` if there is a failure to allocate resources
    required by the OpenCL implementation on the host.

## Also see

[`clEnqueueReadBuffer`](clEnqueueReadBuffer.html),
[`clEnqueueWriteBuffer`](clEnqueueWriteBuffer.html),
[`clCreateBuffer`](clCreateBuffer.html),
[`clEnqueueCopyBuffer`](clEnqueueCopyBuffer.html),
[`clEnqueueCopyBufferToImage`](clEnqueueCopyBufferToImage.html),
[`cl_khr_mipmap_image`](cl_khr_mipmap_image.html)

## Specification

[OpenCL 2.1 API Specification, page
149](https://www.khronos.org/registry/cl/specs/opencl-2.1.pdf#page=149)

## Copyright

[Copyright Â© 2007-2017 The Khronos Group Inc.](copyright.html)
