
## Parameters

`command_queue`  
Is a valid host command-queue in which the write command will be queued.
`command_queue` and `buffer` must be created with the same OpenCL
context.

`buffer`  
Refers to a valid buffer object.

`blocking_write`  
Indicates if the write operations are `blocking` or `nonblocking`.

If `blocking_write` is `CL_TRUE`, the OpenCL implementation copies the
data referred to by `ptr` and enqueues the write operation in the
command-queue. The memory pointed to by `ptr` can be reused by the
application after the `clEnqueueWriteBuffer` call returns.

If `blocking_write` is `CL_FALSE`, the OpenCL implementation will use
`ptr` to perform a nonblocking write. As the write is non-blocking the
implementation can return immediately. The memory pointed to by `ptr`
cannot be reused by the application after the call returns. The `event`
argument returns an event object which can be used to query the
execution status of the write command. When the write command has
completed, the memory pointed to by `ptr` can then be reused by the
application.

`offset`  
The offset in bytes in the buffer object to write to.

`size`  
The size in bytes of data being written.

`ptr`  
The pointer to buffer in host memory where data is to be written from.

`event_wait_list` `num_events_in_wait_list`  
`event_wait_list` and `num_events_in_wait_list` specify events that need
to complete before this particular command can be executed. If
`event_wait_list` is NULL, then this particular command does not wait on
any event to complete. If `event_wait_list` is NULL,
`num_events_in_wait_list` must be 0. If `event_wait_list` is not NULL,
the list of events pointed to by `event_wait_list` must be valid and
`num_events_in_wait_list` must be greater than 0. The events specified
in `event_wait_list` act as synchronization points. The context
associated with events in `event_wait_list` and `command_queue` must be
the same. The memory associated with `event_wait_list` can be reused or
freed after the function returns.

`event`  
Returns an event object that identifies this particular write command
and can be used to query or queue a wait for this particular command to
complete. `event` can be NULL in which case it will not be possible for
the application to query the status of this command or queue a wait for
this command to complete. If the `event_wait_list` and the `event`
arguments are not NULL, the `event` argument should not refer to an
element of the `event_wait_list` array

## Notes

Calling `clEnqueueWriteBuffer` to update the latest bits in a region of
the buffer object with the `ptr` argument value set to `host_ptr` +
`offset`, where `host_ptr` is a pointer to the memory region specified
when the buffer object being written is created with
`CL_MEM_USE_HOST_PTR`, must meet the following requirements in order to
avoid undefined behavior:

-   The host memory region given by `(host_ptr + offset, cb)` contains
    the latest bits when the enqueued write command begins execution.

-   The buffer object or memory objects created from this buffer object
    are not mapped.

-   The buffer object or memory objects created from this buffer object
    are not used by any command-queue until the read command has
    finished execution.

## Errors

`clEnqueueWriteBuffer` returns `CL_SUCCESS` if the function is executed
successfully. Otherwise, it returns one of the following errors:

-   `CL_INVALID_COMMAND_QUEUE` if `command_queue` is not a valid
    command-queue.

-   `CL_INVALID_CONTEXT` if the context associated with `command_queue`
    and `buffer` are not the same or if the context associated with
    `command_queue` and events in `event_wait_list` are not the same.

-   `CL_INVALID_MEM_OBJECT` if `buffer` is not a valid buffer object.

-   `CL_INVALID_VALUE` if the region being written specified by
    (`offset`, `size`) is out of bounds or if `ptr` is a NULL value.

-   `CL_INVALID_EVENT_WAIT_LIST` if `event_wait_list` is NULL and
    `num_events_in_wait_list` > 0, or `event_wait_list` is not NULL and
    `num_events_in_wait_list` is 0, or if event objects in
    `event_wait_list` are not valid events.

-   `CL_MISALIGNED_SUB_BUFFER_OFFSET` if `buffer` is a sub-buffer object
    and `offset` specified when the sub-buffer object is created is not
    aligned to `CL_DEVICE_MEM_BASE_ADDR_ALIGN` value for device
    associated with `queue`.

-   `CL_EXEC_STATUS_ERROR_FOR_EVENTS_IN_WAIT_LIST` if the read and write
    operations are blocking and the execution status of any of the
    events in `event_wait_list` is a negative integer value.

-   `CL_MEM_OBJECT_ALLOCATION_FAILURE` if there is a failure to allocate
    memory for data store associated with `buffer`.

-   `CL_INVALID_OPERATION` if [`clEnqueueWriteBuffer`](#) is called on
    `buffer` which has been created with `CL_MEM_HOST_READ_ONLY` or
    `CL_MEM_HOST_NO_ACCESS`.

-   `CL_OUT_OF_RESOURCES` if there is a failure to allocate resources
    required by the OpenCL implementation on the device.

-   `CL_OUT_OF_HOST_MEMORY` if there is a failure to allocate resources
    required by the OpenCL implementation on the host.

## Also see

[`clEnqueueCopyBuffer`](clEnqueueCopyBuffer.html),
[`clEnqueueReadBuffer`](clEnqueueReadBuffer.html),
[`clEnqueueReadBufferRect`](clEnqueueReadBufferRect.html),
[`clEnqueueWriteBufferRect`](clEnqueueWriteBufferRect.html)

## Specification

[OpenCL 2.1 API Specification, page
110](https://www.khronos.org/registry/cl/specs/opencl-2.1.pdf#page=110)

## Copyright

[Copyright Â© 2007-2017 The Khronos Group Inc.](copyright.html)
